Death Cure: The protagonist, Thomas, is held in solitary confinement, but is eventually released by Assistant Director Janson, also known as Rat Man by the Gladers, who tells the Gladers and Group B that there is a cure for the Flare (a deadly disease).
Many of those present were immune to the Flare while some were not, and escaping would serve no purpose, for people in the outside world despise the Immunes.
The Gladers are offered the chance to restore their memories and remove the controllers in their heads. Without the devices, Thomas, Teresa, and Aris will no longer be able to communicate telepathically.
Janson read out names of people who were not immune to the flare, which included Newt. Thomas is devastated. Thomas, Minho, and Newt were the only ones to choose not to undergo , because he feels they will be no help to finding the cure if they don't get their memories back.
All three of them escape before having chips removed, with the help of Brenda and Jorge, who are revealed to be working for WICKED and were sent to the Scorch as an assignment.
Thomas feels betrayed, but Brenda convinces him she had no choice and most of her behavior was not a deception, and Thomas forgives her.
Soon afterward, the Gladers discover everyone who had undergone the restoration procedure had abandoned them; Newt gives Thomas a note and tells him to open it "when the time is right".
The five of them then go to Denver looking for a man called Hans who can take out Thomas, Minho, and Newt's mind controlling chips.
Newt is unable to continue, because he would have been placed into confinement with other cranks. In the airport, a black-suited man directs them to an address.
Waiting for them is Gally, who has joined a group called the Right Arm, and is determined to put an end to the trials and experiments.
He tells them WICKED is capturing every Immune they can find to prepare another cycle of the Trials.
Gally also reveals the decaying cities are home to many who suffer from the Flare, but partake of a drug called Bliss, which slows down brain functioning and can help cranks not feel pain from the Flare.